                                                    DEEP LEARNING – WORKSHEET 4
                                                    
Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which answer explains better the Flattening?
    A) Once we have the pooled feature map, this component transforms the information into a vector. It's the input we need to get on 
       with Artificial Neural Networks.
    B) It is the last step of CNN
    C) Transform images to vectors to make it easier to predict.
    D) Delete unnecessary features to make our dataset cleaner.
    
    Answer:  B) It is the last step of CNN
    
    
2. What is the biggest advantage utilizing CNN?
    A) It works well both for Supervised and Unsupervised Learning.
    B) Little dependence on pre-processing, decreasing the needs of human effort developing its functionalities.
    C) It normalizes (changes) all the input before sending it to the next layer
    D) None of the above
    
    Answer:  B) Little dependence on pre-processing, decreasing the needs of human effort developing its functionalities.
    
    
3. In CNN, having max pooling always decrease the parameters?
   A) True 
   B) False
   
   Answer: B) False
   
   
4. Following are some of the layers used in CNN? Choose the correct order in which they are placed in a CNN.
      i) Pooling
     ii) Flatten
    iii) Convolution
     iv) Fully Connected
      v) ReLU Activation
    A) 3 – 1 – 5 – 2 – 4 
    B) 3 – 5 – 1 – 2 – 4
    C) 2 – 3 – 1 – 5 – 4 
    D) 3 – 1 – 5 – 4 – 2
    
    Answer: D) 3 – 1 – 5 – 4 – 2
    
    
5. If I = Input Size, F = Kernel size, P = Padding, S = Strides, then for calculating Convoluted matrix size, which
of the following formula we may use?
    
    Answer: C=((I-F+2P)/S)+1
    
    
6. The input matrix I, Kernel F are given below. If stride is 2, what will be the convoluted matrix?

    Answer: B) [3 2
                2 3]
    
    
7. The size of input matrix is 32×32, kernel(filter) size is 8×8, if we have taken strides as 2, what will be the size of convoluted 
   matrix provided that there is no padding?
        A) 8×8 
        B) 16×16
        C) 32×32 
        D) 13×13
        
        Answer:  D) 13×13
        
        

8. The Input matrix is given below. What will be the output on applying a max pooling of size 3×3 with a stride of 2?

    Answer: B
    
    
Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. Which of the following statements are true about strides?
    A) larger the value of strides, larger is the size of feature map we get
    B) larger the value of strides, smaller is the size of feature map we get
    C) smaller the value of strides, larger is the size of feature map we get
    D) smaller the value of strides, smaller is the size of feature map we get
    
    Answer: A) larger the value of strides, larger is the size of feature map we get
            D) smaller the value of strides, smaller is the size of feature map we get
    
    
10. Which of the following are CNN architectures?
    A) ResNeXt-50 
    B) Inception-ResNets
    C) LeNet-5 
    D) Hopfield Network
    
    Answer: A) ResNeXt-50 
            B) Inception-ResNets
            C) LeNet-5 
    
    
Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.

11. Describe the basic architecture of a CNN?

    Answer: Basic Convolutional Neural Network Architecture
            CNN architecture is inspired by the organization and functionality of the visual cortex and designed to mimic the 
            connectivity pattern of neurons within the human brain. The neurons within a CNN are split into a three-dimensional 
            structure, with each set of neurons analyzing a small region or feature of the image. In other words, each group of 
            neurons specializes in identifying one part of the image. CNNs use the predictions from the layers to produce a final 
            output that presents a vector of probability scores to represent the likelihood that a specific feature belongs to a 
            certain class.

            A CNN is composed of several kinds of layers:

            Convolutional layer - creates a feature map to predict the class probabilities for each feature by applying a filter 
                                  that scans the whole image, few pixels at a time.
                                  
            Pooling layer (downsampling) - scales down the amount of information the convolutional layer generated for each feature 
                                           and maintains the most essential information.
                                           
            Fully connected input layer — “flattens” the outputs generated by previous layers to turn them into a single vector that 
                                         can be used as an input for the next layer.
                                     
            Fully connected layer — applies weights over the input generated by the feature analysis to predict an accurate label.
            
            Fully connected output layer - generates the final probabilities to determine a class for the image.

    
12. What is convolution in CNN? What is the role of convolution in image processing?

    Answer: Convolution is one of the main building blocks of a CNN. The term convolution refers to the mathematical combination 
            of two functions to produce a third function. It merges two sets of information.
            In the case of a CNN, the convolution is performed on the input data with the use of a filter or kernel to then produce 
            a feature map. We execute a convolution by sliding the filter over the input. At every location, a matrix multiplication 
            is performed and sums the result onto the feature map.
            Convolution is a simple mathematical operation which is fundamental to many common image processing operators. 
            Convolution provides a way of `multiplying together' two arrays of numbers, generally of different sizes, but of the 
            same dimensionality, to produce a third array of numbers of the same dimensionality. This can be used in image processing
            to implement operators whose output pixel values are simple linear combinations of certain input pixel values.
    
    
13. What is the difference between Max Pooling and Average Pooling? Explain briefly.

    Answer: Max pooling: 
            The maximum pixel value of the batch is selected.
            Max pooling selects the brighter pixels from the image. It is useful when the background of the image is dark and we
            are interested in only the lighter pixels of the image
            
            Average pooling: 
            The average value of all the pixels in the batch is selected.
            Average pooling method smooths out the image and hence the sharp features may not be identified when this pooling method
            is used.
    
    
14. What is Padding? Why is it used?

    Answer: Padding is a term relevant to convolutional neural networks as it refers to the amount of pixels added to an image when 
            it is being processed by the kernel of a CNN. For example, if the padding in a CNN is set to zero, then every pixel value
            that is added will be of value zero.
            In order to assist the kernel with processing the image, padding is added to the frame of the image to allow for more space
            for the kernel to cover the image. Adding padding to an image processed by a CNN allows for more accurate analysis of images.
    
    
15. Describe the layers used in classification part of a CNN?

    Answer: Convolutional Neural Networks have several types of layers:

            Convolutional layer - A “filter” passes over the image, scanning a few pixels at a time and creating a feature map that
                                  predicts the class to which each feature belongs.
                                  
            Pooling layer (downsampling) - Reduces the amount of information in each feature obtained in the convolutional layer
                                           while maintaining the most important information (there are usually several rounds of 
                                           convolution and pooling).
                                           
            Fully connected input layer (flatten) - Takes the output of the previous layers, “flattens” them and turns them into a 
                                                    single vector that can be an input for the next stage.
                                                    
            The first fully connected layer - takes the inputs from the feature analysis and applies weights to predict the correct label.
            
            Fully connected output layer - gives the final probabilities for each label.
            
            