                                                     DEEP LEARNING WORKSHEET-1

Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which of the following can approximate any function universally (i.e. universal approximators)?
    A) Boosted Decision Trees 
    B) Neural Networks
    C) Kernel SVM 
    D) All of the above
    
    Answer: B) Neural Networks
    
    
2. In which of the following domains we cannot use neural networks?
    A) Image Processing 
    B) Speech Processing
    C) Fraud Detection 
    D) None of the above
    
    Answer: D) None of the above
    
    
3. Rearrange the following steps of a gradient descent algorithm in correct order of their occurrence?
    i.  Initialize random weight and bias
    ii. Repeat the process until you find the best weights of network
    iii.Change weights and biases for each neuron to reduce the error
    iv. Calculate error distances between the actual and the predicted value
    v.  Pass an input through the network and get values from output layer
        
        Choose the correct option:
        A) iv – i – iii – v – ii 
        B) v – i – iii – iv –ii
        C) i – v – iv – iii – ii 
        D) i – v – iii –iv –ii
        
        Answer: D) i – v – iii –iv –ii
        
        
4. What is the full form of RNN?
    A) Recurrent Neural Network 
    B) Recursive Neural Network
    C) Redundant Neural Network
    D) Resurrection Neural Network
    
    Answer: A) Recurrent Neural Network 
    
    
5. What is plasticity in neural networks?
    A) input pattern keeps on changing 
    B) input pattern has become static
    C) output pattern keeps on changing 
    D) output is static
    
    Answwer: A) input pattern keeps on changing 
    
    
6. What is stability plasticity dilemma?
    A) system can neither be stable nor plastic
    B) static inputs & categorization can’t be handled
    C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled
    D) none of the above
    
    Answer: C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled
    
    
7. Read the following statements:
        Statement 1: It is possible to train a network well by initializing all the weights as 0
        Statement 2: It is possible to train a network well by initializing biases as 0
        Which of the statements given above is true, Choose the correct option?
        A) Statement 1 is true while Statement 2 is false
        B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false
        C) Both statements are true
        D) Both statements are false
        
        Answer: B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false
        
        
8. Which of the following architecture has feedback connections?
    A) Recurrent Neural network 
    B) Convolutional Neural Network
    C) Restricted Boltzmann Machine 
    D) simple Artificial Neural Network
    
    Answer: A) Recurrent Neural network 
    
    
Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. In training a neural network, you notice that the loss does not decrease in the few starting epochs. The reason behind it could be
    A) Learning Rate is low 
    B) Regularisation parameter is high
    C) Regularisation parameter is low 
    D) Stuck at local minima
    
    Answer: A) Learning Rate is low 
            B) Regularisation parameter is high
            D) Stuck at local minima
    
    
10. Which of the following function(s) can be used to impart non – linearity in a neural network?
    A) Stochastic Gradient Descent 
    B) Rectified Linear Unit
    C) Convolution Function 
    D) Sigmoid Function
    
    Answer: B) Rectified Linear Unit
    
    
Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.

11. What is Deep Learning?
    Answer: Deep learning also known as deep structured learning is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on 
            artificial neural networks with representation learning. Learning can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised.
            Deep-learning architectures such as deep neural networks, deep belief networks, recurrent neural networks and 
            convolutional neural networks have been applied to fields including 
                     computer vision
                     machine vision
                     speech recognition
                     natural language processing
                     audio recognition
                     social network filtering
                     machine translation
                     bioinformatics
                     drug design
                     medical image analysis
                     material inspection and board game programs
            where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases surpassing human expert performance.
            

12. What is reinforcement learning?
    Answer: Reinforcement learning is the training of machine learning models to make a sequence of decisions. The agent learns 
            to achieve a goal in an uncertain, potentially complex environment. In reinforcement learning, an artificial intelligence 
            faces a game-like situation. The computer employs trial and error to come up with a solution to the problem. 
            To get the machine to do what the programmer wants, the artificial intelligence gets either rewards or penalties for the 
            actions it performs. Its goal is to maximize the total reward.
            Although the designer sets the reward policy–that is, the rules of the game–he gives the model no hints or suggestions for 
            how to solve the game. It’s up to the model to figure out how to perform the task to maximize the reward, starting from 
            totally random trials and finishing with sophisticated tactics and superhuman skills. By leveraging the power of search and 
            many trials, reinforcement learning is currently the most effective way to hint machine’s creativity. 


13. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?
    Answer:                 Machine Learning                                         Deep Learning
                Machine Learning is a superset of Deep Learning         Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning
         
         The data represented in Machine Learning is quite  different  The data representation is used in Deep Learning is quite different 
            as compared to Deep Learning as it uses structured data              as it uses neural networks(ANN)
            
               Machine Learning is an evolution of AI                       Deep Learning is an evolution to Machine Learning
               
               Machine learning consists of thousands of data points         Big Data: Millions of data points
               
               Outputs: Numerical Value, like classification of score       Anything from numerical values to free-form elements, 
                                                                                  such as free text and sound
                                                                                                                       
               
14. What is a perceptron?
    Answer: A Perceptron is an algorithm used for supervised learning of binary classifiers. Binary classifiers decide whether 
            an input, usually represented by a series of vectors, belongs to a specific class. 
            A perceptron is a single-layer neural network. They consist of four main parts including 
            input values, 
            weights and bias, 
            net sum, and an activation function.
            
            

15. What’s the difference between AI and ML?
    Answer: Artificial Intelligence
            1. Artificial intelligence is a technology which enables a machine to simulate human behavior.
            2. The goal of AI is to make a smart computer system like humans to solve complex problems
            3. In AI, we make intelligent systems to perform any task like a human.
            4. Machine learning and deep learning are the two main subsets of AI.
            5. AI has a very wide range of scope.	Machine learning has a limited scope.
            6. The main applications of AI are Siri, customer support using catboats, Expert System, Online game playing, 
               intelligent humanoid robot, etc.
            7. On the basis of capabilities, AI can be divided into three types, which are, Weak AI, General AI, and Strong AI.
            8. It includes learning, reasoning, and self-correction.
            9. AI completely deals with Structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data.
            
            Machine learning
            1. Machine learning is a subset of AI,allows a machine to automatically learn from past data withoutprogramming explicitly.
            2. The goal of ML is to allow machines to learn from data so that they can give accurate output.
            3. In ML, we teach machines with data to perform a particular task and give an accurate result.
            4. Deep learning is a main subset of machine learning.
            5. Machine learning has a limited scope.
            6. The main applications of machine learning are Online recommender system, Google search algorithms, Facebook 
               auto friend tagging suggestions, etc.
            7. Machine learning can also be divided into mainly three types that are Supervised learning, Unsupervised learning,
               and Reinforcement learning.
            8. It includes learning and self-correction when introduced with new data.
            9. Machine learning deals with Structured and semi-structured data.

