                                                        SQL Worksheet


Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.

1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
 A) Create B) Update
 C) Delete D) ALTER
 
 Answer: A) Create
         D) ALTER
         
2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
 A) Update B) Delete
 C) Select D) Drop
 
 Answer: A) Update
         B) Delete
         C) Select 
 
 

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

3. Full form of SQL is:
 A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
 C) Simple Query Language D) None of them
 
 Answer: B) Structured Query Language
 
4. Full form of DDL is:
 A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
 C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.
 
 Answer: B) Data Definition Language
 
5. DML is:
 A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
 C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these
 
 Answer: A) Data Manipulation Language
 
6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
 A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
 C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them
 
 Answer: C) Create Table A (B int,C float)
 
7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
 A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
 C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them
 
 Answer: B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
 
8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
 A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
 C) Delete D from A D) None of them
 
 Answer: B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
 
9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of
   table A created in above questions?
 A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
 C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int
 
 Answer: B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
 
10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following
    statements we can do it?
 A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
 C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them
 
 Answer:  C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B
 
 
 
Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11. What is data-warehouse?

Answer:       Data warehouse is a combination information or data of several sources into a electronic storage.
        It is setup in such a way to run a query and to analyse the data based on previous transaction for 
        futher busniess take over. 
              Data warehouse also known as an Enterprise Data Warehouse used for data analysis and it is considered
        as vital part for business intelligence.
        
        In data warehouse Data may be in the form of:
            Structured
            Semi-structured
            Unstructured data
            
        Main 3 types of data warehouse are 
             Enterprise Data Warehouse
             Operational Data Store
             Data Mart
             
        Most commonly data warehouse is used in the following sectors:
             Airlines
             Insurance 
             Banking
             Telecommunication
             Healthcare
             
             
             
12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Answer:     OLTP and OLAP: The two terms look similar but refer to different kinds of systems and used for different purposes.
       Online transaction processing (OLTP) gets th data, stores the data, and processes data from transactions in real time 
       and also maintains transaction in a database. 
       
       Online analytical processing (OLAP) uses complex queries to analyse previous historical data from OLTP systems for 
       data mining, analytics and business intelligence projects.
       
       OLTP vs OLAP: side-by-side comparison
                 
       Parameters          OLTP (Online transaction processing)           OLAP (Online analytical processing)
                         
       Query types         Handles simple standardized queries            Handles complex queries
       
       Operations          Based on INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE commands       Based on SELECT commands
       
       Source              Transactions                                   Aggregated data from transactions
       
       Real time           Lists day-to-day business transactions         Multi-dimensional view of enterprise data
       
       Database design     Normalized databases for efficiency            Denormalized databases for analysis
       
       Characteristics     It can Handles large number of                 It can Handles large of transactions with 
                            small transactions                            complex queries
           
         

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Answer:    There are 4 characteristics in data warehouse purposed by William Inmon
       Subject Oriented
       Integrated
       Non-volatile
       Time Variant
       
       Subject Oriented:- A data warehouse is subject oriented because analyze and provides information around 
                          particular subject area rather than the entire organization.
                                subject areas can be marketing
                                                     product
                                                     customers
                                                     suppliers
                                                     sales etc.
                                                     
       Integrated:- A data warehouse is constructed by integrating data from heterogeneous sources i,e integrates data 
                    from multiple data sources. For example, source A and source B may have different ways of identifying
                    a product, but in a data warehouse, there will be only a single way of identifying a product.
                    Integration such as relational databases
                                        flat files etc
                          
       Time Variant:- Data are organized by various time-periods, data collected in a data warehouse is identified with 
                      a particular time intervals such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc. It provides information from
                      the historical point of view. In time-variance once data is stored in the data warehouse then it
                      cannot be modified, alter, or updated.
                      
       Non-volatile:- Non-volatile means the previous data is not erased when new data is added to it. The data resided in
                      data warehouse is permanent.In this data is read-only and refreshed at particular intervals
                      Two types of data operations done in the data warehouse are:
                                         Data Loading
                                         Data Access


14. What is Star-Schema?
Answer:      The implementation of a business intelligence model and data warehouse involves the concept of Star Schema.
        The star schema architecture is the simplest data warehouse schema. Star schema consists data in the form of Facts
        tables and Dimensions tablets. The reason behind the name Star Schema is that this data model resembles a star with
        ends rays from the center, where the center refers to the fact table and the end rays points are known as dimension
        tables.
        
        Fact Tables:
        A fact table typically has two types of columns 1) foreign keys 
                                                        2) numeric Values
                                                        
        The table is designed in a way such that the facts can store values at atomic level, which allows the storage of 
        large number of records at a time.A unique key is assigned to a fact table to identify each row uniquely.Typical
        fact tables store data about sales.
       
        There are three kinds of fact tables 1) Transaction fact table
                                             2) Snapshot fact table
                                             3) Accumulating snapshot table                                       
        
        Dimension Tables:
        Dimension tables support descriptive data, the number of records inserted are relatively lesser than the fact table.
        It ia structure usually composed of one or more hierarchies that categorizes data, if it's not composed of hierarchies
        than it is called as flat dimension or list dimeansion. Some of the frequently used dimension tables are Time dimension 
        table, Geography dimension table, Product dimension table, Employee dimension table and so on. Typical dimension tables 
        store data about markets, clients, products, times and channels.
        
        Benefits of using Star Schema: 1) Simple business logic schemas
                                       2) Easy to use and understand
                                       3) Faster aggregations 
                                       4) Swift retrieval of data
                                       5) Star schema is effective and efficient for business
        
        
15. What do you mean by SETL?
Answer:  SETL stands for SET Language, SETL is a high-level programming language that's based on the mathematical 
         theory of sets. 
         It was developed in the early 1970's by mathematician Professor J. Schwartz. 
         SETL is an interpreted language with a syntax that is resembles C and in many cases similar to Perl. 
         In SETL every statement is terminated by a semicolon. 
         Variable names are case-insensitive and are automatically determined by their last assignment.
