                                                    Statistics– WORKSHEET 6
                                                    
Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation?
    a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation
    b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
    c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation
    d) All of the mentioned
    
    Answer: b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
    
    
2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called outcomes.
    a) random
    b) direct
    c) binomial
    d) none of the mentioned
    
    Answer: c) binomial
    
    
3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial?
    a) 2
    b) 3
    c) 4
    d) None of the mentioned
    
    Answer: a) 2
    
    
4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called:
    (a) Type-I error
    (b) Type-II error
    (c) Standard error
    (d) Sampling error
    
    Answer: (a) Type-I error
    
    
5. Level of significance is also called:
    (a) Power of the test
    (b) Size of the test
    (c) Level of confidence
    (d) Confidence coefficient
    
    Answer: (c) Level of confidence
    
    
6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size:
    (a) Decreases
    (b) Increases
    (c) Both of them
    (d) None of them
    
    Answer:  (b) Increases
    
    
7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
    (a) Probability
    (b) Hypothesis
    (c) Causal
    (d) None of the mentioned
    
    Answer:  (b) Hypothesis
    
    
8. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference?
    (a) Minimize errors
    (b) Minimize false positives
    (c) Minimize false negatives
    (d) All of the mentioned
    
    Answer: (d) All of the mentioned
    
    
9. Normalized data is centered at and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data.
    (a) 0 
    (b) 5
    (c) 1 
    (d) 10
    
    Answer:  (a) 0 
    
    
Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.

10. What Is Bayes' Theorem?
    Answer: Bayes' Theorem is a simple mathematical formula used for calculating conditional probabilities. 
            Bayes' Theorem is a way of finding a probability when we know certain other probabilities.

                    formula :          P(A|B) =  P(A) P(B|A)P(B) 

            Which tells us: how often A happens given that B happens, written P(A|B),
            When we know: how often B happens given that A happens, written P(B|A)
                    and how likely A is on its own, written P(A)
                    and how likely B is on its own, written P(B)
    
    
11. What is z-score?
    Answer: A Z-score is a numerical measurement that describes a value's relationship to the mean of a group of values. 
            Z-score is measured in terms of standard deviations from the mean. 
            If a Z-score is 0, it indicates that the data point's score is identical to the mean score.
            A Z-score of 1.0 would indicate a value that is one standard deviation from the mean. 
            Z-scores may be positive or negative, with a positive value indicating the score is above the mean and a negative score
            indicating it is below the mean.

                                         
                                         Z = x - mu / sigma
                                         
                            Z = standard score
                            x = observed value
                            mu = mean of the sample
                            sigma = standard deviation of the sample


    
12. What is t-test? 
    Answer: A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between 
            the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. It is mostly used when the data sets, 
            like the data set recorded as the outcome from flipping a coin 100 times, would follow a normal distribution 
            and may have unknown variances. A t-test is used as a hypothesis testing tool, which allows testing of an 
            assumption applicable to a population. 
                            
                            t=m-mu / { s / sqrt{n}}
                          
                            t = Student's t-test
                            m = mean
                            mu = theoretical value
                            s = standard deviation
                            {n} = variable set size


13. What is a percentile?
    Answer: A percentile is a type of quantile which divides the given probability distribution, or sample, 
            into 100 equal-sized intervals; this allows the data to be analyzed in terms of percentages. 
            For example, the 20th percentile is the value below which 20% of the observations are found, and above which 80% are found.
    
    
14. What is ANOVA?
    Answer: Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is an analysis tool used in statistics that splits an observed aggregate variability 
            found inside a data set into two parts: systematic factors and random factors. The systematic factors have a 
            statistical influence on the given data set, while the random factors do not. 
            Analysts use the ANOVA test to determine the influence that independent variables have on the dependent 
            variable in a regression study.

                            F=  MSE / MST
                           
                           where:
                            F=ANOVA coefficient
                            MST=Mean sum of squares due to treatment
                            MSE=Mean sum of squares due to error

    
15. How can ANOVA help?
    Answer: Developed by Ronald Fisher, ANOVA stands for Analysis of Variance. One-Way Analysis of Variance tells you if there 
            are any statistical differences between the means of three or more independent groups.
            The one-way ANOVA can help you know whether or not there are significant differences between the means of your
            independent variables. When you understand how each independent variable’s mean is different from the others,
            you can begin to understand which of them has a connection to your dependent variable ,
            and begin to learn what is driving that behavior.
    
    
    